in the Hagler Building, and I have the pleasure of interviewing Bob Walker, the incomparably tireless and capable Chief Development Officer for Texas A&M.
Bob, check your mic.
Okay.
I'm serving as Vice President for Development for Texas A&M University.
I believe I forgot to mention the date.
This is April 12, year 2000.
Bob, to begin, would you give a brief biographical sketch of your life and experience before you enrolled as a freshman at Texas A&M?
Where and how long and so forth?
Well, I was born, Haskell, in Victoria, Texas, January the 20th, 1936.
We lived there for about a year.
My father was working for Central Power and Light.
He was then transferred to Westlaco, Texas.
And I entered the first grade and completed the first grade in Westlaco.
He then was transferred to the beautiful city of Presidio out in the Big Bend area.
And we lived there and I finished the sixth grade.
And during that period of time, I was always in the minority.
I was one of three Anglos in my class.
And I was good at rock throwing and riding horses and swimming and a few things like that.
We then moved to Spur, Texas, south of Lubbock and Dickens County.
My father was then working for the West Tex Utility Company because they had bought out the Central Power and Light Facility at Presidio.
I finished high school there in 1954 and then came to Texas A&M in September of 1954.
As you now look back on it, why did you decide to come to A&M?
It's a strange story of how I even got to college in the first place.
My father was an electrician.
I grew up around things mechanical.
have always scored in the highest percentile in mechanical ability.
I like to fix things, repair things, analyze things.
And my dad let me take a Smith Corona typewriter apart when I was about seven years old, put it back together.
I tore down and repaired and rebuilt a Ford tractor, four-cylinder engine, when I was in about the fifth grade.
My lifelong ambition in high school was to someday be a mechanic on my own mechanic shop and repair cars.
I was in love with cars.
My first car was a 1939 Ford, and I was so pleased that it would drive 28 miles from where I bought it to our house.
But a very wonderful lady that was my civics teacher my senior year, Mrs. Ida Johnston,
Just an incredibly good teacher and an inspiring person.
And one day after we had finished a civics project and I had gotten the best grade she said she'd ever given, I was in front of the class explaining why I put all these things in various parts of the city on my chart.
And she said, well, Bobby, let me ask you one other question.
I was then known as Bobby Walker.
She said, why don't you tell the class where you're going to college?
And being a little quick on my feet, I said, well, Mrs. Johnston, I have not really made up my mind yet.
And after class, I went up to her and I said, Mrs. Johnston, that was not a very fair question.
That was kind of dirty, as a matter of fact.
You know I'm not planning to go to college.
And she said, I know that, and that'll be a big mistake.
You need to go to college.
She said, you could still be a mechanic, but you ought to go to college first.
And I said, well, I wouldn't even know where to go.
And she said, well, why don't you go to Texas A&M College with your good friend Don McGinty?
And I said, well, it's probably too late, and I don't have an application, and I wouldn't even know where to begin.
And she opened her desk drawer and pulled out an application and said, let's fill this out.
And we did, and I ultimately came to Texas A&M.
I was so naive at that time that I didn't even know you had to be in the Cadet Corps.
I'd never been to College Station.
I did get a little bit of an introduction by going to Junction, to the adjunct, and it was then touted as the stepping stone program for
individuals that had gone to small rural high schools going to a major college.
Now, you were, you did not go to Junction as a, what do we call it now?
Oh, the Junction football boys?
No, no, no, the students that are there.
Oh, the geology students.
Surveying.
Are those that are admitted provisionally?
No, no, no, no.
I was fully admitted.
Of course, in those days, you've got 16 credits.
You'd get any school in Texas.
And this was the summer of?
1954.
Well, describe the adjunction.
We don't have much information about the, describe the adjunct and what it was like.
Well, the adjunct was probably less than 200 of us there.
And we had some outstanding professors.
I remember
Mr. Lyles, who taught algebra.
I remember Sid Cox, who taught English.
I remember a man in the basic division.
Oh, I can't recall his name right now, but... Not Austin Curley.
It was not Austin Curley.
It was a little man that I just can't recall it now.
I think...
Cliff Randstill was in and out of there a little bit too.
But what they did is they tested us to see if we could read.
And I needed a reading course.
So I took remedial reading, algebra, PE course, and English.
And wound up with seven credits, some extra grade points.
But we lived in little, almost like Quonset huts.
They were a slab, concrete slab.
had a metal roof on them, corrugated asbestos siding with windows that opened up with screens.
12 bunks in there.
And you had to have, call to quarter, CQ, at night studying, and the profs would come around.
I'll never forget Sid Cox.
He was kind of a burly, rough guy.
And he walked into our little barracks there, and he was carrying a machete.
And he turned it sideways and just slapped it on the desk and he said, young fellow, are you having any problems?
And he just scared the life out of me.
But he was a good teacher and I enjoyed the experience there very much.
I also had the opportunity while there observing Coach Bear Bryant bringing the football team there.
And so I watched practice practically every day for those two weeks they were there.
What was your impression of what was going on for them?
Well, my impression was that it was a very difficult time.
He brought them there for focus, concentration, and to find out who wanted to play.
They lined off a field out there that was filled with grass burrs and goat heads and put up a goal post, and it was hot.
And I've read the Junction Boys book, and it's a little exaggerated in many areas.
But it was true that there was a larger number came out there than left.
And it was an interesting experience.
He was a very demanding coach.
All right, back for you and the rest of them at Junction as students.
Describe a typical weekday.
When did it begin and what happened when?
Well, normally we got up about 6 or 6.30, had breakfast.
It was a chow line type arrangement in a large dining hall, metal roof on it.
They wanted you to eat early because it got pretty warm in the daytime.
We ate.
We had inspection of our barracks, had to have the beds made up, that kind of thing.
And then we had our classes, and we had regular classrooms in almost like Quonset huts.
And usually our classes were all in the morning, so we had the afternoons free and plenty of time to study in the evening.
But it was...
I felt like it was everything they said it was a stepping stone for those of us who did not have the academic challenges in small rural high schools that we needed to be successful at Texas A&M.
If you and your buddies wanted to play, where did you all play?
Well, you could go to the big city of Menard or Mason or Junction or any of those metropolises around there.
There was not a whole lot to do and very few coeds anywhere around.
What did, do you remember the cost of that summer?
It was, I don't know.
maybe $150 for the summer, six weeks period.
Now you had not yet been to College Station?
No, I'd never been to College Station.
Describe then your coming to College Station to enroll and your impression with the campus when you first saw it.
Well, Don McGinty, my roommate, was coming five days early before classes began and so
We decided we'd come together and my father drove us here and then we unloaded our foot lockers and our clothes and they assigned us to a dorm.
And the only people I knew were those football players.
And so I went over to football practice again.
Bryant, Coach Bryant had his players back and I knew
I knew a number of those players, and so we went over and watched them practice even again.
But I remember my hometown then was probably less than 3,000 people, and coming to a place that was going to have around 7,500 students, it seemed like big.
The dormitories looked huge, and I was assigned to dorm one and was going to be in the
Air Force, Squadron 4.
So they gave us our room, and that's where we started.
Describe your first introduction to Aggie traditions of conduct and fish life and so forth.
Well, of course, the haircuts were one of the first things that we encountered.
Although I wore my hair relatively short, it was obvious that we were going to get it buzzed off.
and a flat top was too long.
So I remember they said, if anything shows over your fingers when you ran your hand up in your hair, it had to go.
And I'll never forget them assigning our, you know, issuing us our uniforms.
I had never worn khaki uniforms and I didn't know much about creases and starch and then those military shoes.
big-time blisters because they were pretty big, hard-soled shoes.
The other thing I remember more than anything else was that there was just a lot of unknown factors to a kid from a little high school that had 32 in our graduating class.
But that five-day period that I was here, I just explored the campus everywhere.
and had a wonderful time doing it.
So the serendipity of it all was I did benefit greatly by coming that week early.
And there were some of my friends that were very dismayed because we didn't have all the sophomores around here and all the upperclassmen yelling at us yet.
And it was pretty tranquil.
As you explored the campus, were there some startling surprises to you?
Things you discovered that impressed you?
Well, I was impressed with the Memorial Student Center, the MSC.
It was just a few years old.
I just couldn't believe you had all the amenities that were offered there for students.
We had the, you know, the bowling alley.
We had the coffee shop.
We had places to eat.
We had the social library.
We had just any number of things like that.
The Metzger gun collection up on the third floor was fascinating.
And then, of course, I guess G. Raleigh White Coliseum was brand new, just been in existence a few years, and I thought it was huge.
Kyle Field was incredible, although we didn't have the second and third decks at that time.
It still seemed, our little high school stadium, you know, might seat 1,500.
And to come to a place that was 30,000 plus was incredible.
All right, then describe how you registered for your classes and what were those first classes?
Well, we registered for classes, I remember, on the steps and in the area in front of Cebiza.
And it was pretty...
line up and get your paperwork done arrangement.
And, of course, I signed up for a PE class, history class, English.
Engineering 101, I didn't have the foggiest notion what that was because I was starting out in electrical engineering.
It's what I thought I was going to be.
Well, that was a slide rule course.
Haskell, I had never seen a slide rule in my life.
I did not know what a slide rule was.
And I was ashamed to tell anybody that I'd never seen one.
And we went to the first class, and there was this huge 12-foot slide rule hanging up there.
And the professor said, gentlemen, this is a K&E slide rule.
And if you don't have one, I suggest you get one.
And he said, Lupo over at Northgate has some very good bargains on these things.
So I went and bought my first library.
And of course, I learned what it was all about.
But the more I got into my academic coursework, the more I realized that probably engineering wasn't really where I needed to be.
One of the hardest things to adjust to
was all of the activities that went on around the dorm, at the chow hall, at the drill field, at the intramural field, everything.
Now, we had call to quarters every night for three hours, usually 7.30 to 10.30 or 7 to 10, I forget the exact time.
But you had, as a freshman, to be sitting at your desk,
all four legs of the chair on the floor and your two feet on the floor.
And they called this a six-point stance.
And you had to be awake.
You could not have a radio on.
And I, at home, always had a radio going.
And it was a difficult time.
Finally, I guess I just came to the conclusion that if I was going to sit there every night for three hours, I'd just well study.
And so I learned to study.
And I credit the discipline that they gave us in the Corps.
as the reason I finally succeeded at Texas A&M.
Give some of the pluses and the minuses experiences of those first months in terms of the traditions and what others might call hazing.
Right.
Well, I think as much as anything, every one of us as freshmen began to realize what
low life we were.
And the sophomores reminded you of this every minute of the day.
Now, many of my buddies were throwing in the towel.
They said, I'm not going to put up with this.
I'm not going to live this way.
And I don't mean that it was beating with the board.
That didn't happen.
They were not supposed to be doing that.
But it was just, you had to hit the wall.
any time a sophomore or an upperclassman came by, you had to call them by name, and that was difficult.
We had probably 40-some-odd freshmen in our outfit, and we had to not only know the freshmen, but all the upperclassmen.
We had to know their name,
their major, and their hometown.
And that was a difficult thing, but yet it was very good.
And we drew on our mental capacities like you can't imagine.
Sorry about this coffee.
But I remember I would write down all the names of the upper class
And I'd memorize those.
And my freshman buddies and I would spend time going over them.
And the upperclassmen enjoyed trying to see if you remembered who they were.
And if you didn't, you might do some push-ups.
You might do various things.
But here's what happened.
And this was the time that I began to realize that I could have fun as a freshman.
And the fun was that if we as a group of freshmen stayed together, united, we could haze the sophomores.
I mean, we could haze them big time.
We'd come up there and a guy would be trying to go to class and we'd all line up to whip out to him.
And we'd have to tell him where we're from, what we're majoring in, and all that stuff.
And we would just, and finally the sophomores would just say, get out of here freshmen.
Let us, let us along.
Now we had a lot of fun drowning out the sophomores.
And of course, you know that procedure was you take a wastebasket full of water and find them at night and lock their door and all that good stuff.
But I found out pretty soon that they couldn't hurt you, really.
It was a mental game more than anything else.
And if you just said, hey, I'll let this go in and out and not worry about it.
My dad also had challenged me to make my grades that first semester because I had a car at home and he wouldn't let me bring it until I brought home passing grades.
And so that was different.
Did your outfit have a nickname?
We were the Four Aces.
Why?
Well, it was a jet, and it had the four aces behind it as if it was flying from or over them, and that was Squadron Four, and I guess that's how they got the four aces.
Aces as in playing cards?
Yes.
You said you mentioned board.
Was there any paddling in your outfit?
I can remember on one occasion where an upperclassman took a T-square and just acted like he was really going to beat on us, but he wound up breaking his T-square and it really didn't.
I never really was physically hurt with a board.
Was your fish old lady turned out to be a special person in your?
Yeah, Jim Gatlin was my, no, excuse me, Don McGinty was my fish old lady my freshman year.
And he was from my hometown.
And so we had a lot in common.
The only thing about McGinty was that he was a borrower.
And he always seemed to want to borrow whatever I had.
But that even taught you some things.
When he borrowed my car, I always left it about empty, and then he'd have to buy gas.
So that was one of those things you learned.
What made the Four Aces special?
What were y'all known for, proudest to claim?
Well, I don't know that we, at that time, were, you know, among the top ten units in the Corps.
But we seemed to have...
Pretty good intramural teams.
We seemed to have just a lot of fun.
And our outfit was united.
And we had some upperclassmen that made the freshmen feel good.
And I remember our CO my freshman year was Ben Rector.
And Ben was one of those guys that he was kind of a no-nonsense guy, and yet he never spent any time hazing freshmen.
And it was, it was very, I think the people is what made it unique.
Describe Chow Hall in those days and what went on and rituals and so forth.
Well, of course, all freshmen, we marched to the Chow Hall and ate in Duncan.
And I remember
we had assigned seats and usually we had an upperclassman that we served.
And there was always a freshman that sat on what's called the hot corner and all of the family style meals.
And if you were as a dish that was empty or near empty, it was that freshman's job to see that it got emptied and sent back for more so that you'd never run out of anything.
And, uh, naturally the,
the Cush questions were always very interesting.
What were some of those?
Well, if the Cush was something that nobody liked, then they'd say, well, what color was General Washington's gray horse?
But if it was something like chocolate eclairs, it would be a Cush question that was just almost impossible to answer.
And sophomores enjoyed finding out
little-known campusology facts.
You know, how many bricks are there in the smokestack?
Well, there was really just one.
It was one in the bottom that it had its nameplate on.
But nobody knew that until you'd been around a while.
And, you know, they would ask a lot of very interesting questions.
Did those tough Cush questions always have an answer?
Oh, yes.
Always had an answer.
There weren't any unanswerable ones.
There weren't any unanswerable questions.
They knew the answers and they had to because the juniors and seniors would see to it that they were not being chicken.
What was the quality of the food then?
I thought the quality of the food was outstanding.
I came to A&M weighing about 170 pounds.
And by the end of my freshman year, I was right at 195.
And so there was no shortage of opportunity to eat.
What I remember well, though, was we had some upperclassmen.
One of my upperclassmen that I liked, but I was his almost room orderly, was a guy named Shannon Griggs.
He was a junior.
And Shannon did not like to get up in the morning at all.
And so my job on cold winter mornings was to be sure that I brought him some food from the dining hall.
And we had milk in those little half-pint jars with lids on them.
And you'd put those in the pockets of your overcoat, slip them out, and bring them back to the juniors and seniors.
And that was always
an interesting little game that you played with the people at the front door.
But I think everybody knew that the freshmen were taking food out all the time.
They didn't like us taking silverware and things.
The bottles you could take out and bring them back.
One of the things that was so interesting, and this just occurred to me, freshmen could not eat pineapple, kush, our freshman year.
unless our freshman football team beat the University of Texas football team.
And they beat them that year, and we got to eat pineapple, and we also got to wear a flat top in our outfit because of that victory.
And so we thank John David Crow and Charlie Krueger and, and,
Jim Wright and Roddy Osborne and the crew like that that had a good year because they had a separate team as you know.
Now was that about Pineapple was that campus-wide or just for your outfit?
I don't know whether it was campus-wide but I want to say it was it was our outfit I mean it was campus-wide.
I think it was a pineapple dessert
Any kind of pineapple upside down cake and stuff like that.
What were your favorite Aggie foods?
What did you like best?
Well, I liked the mashed potatoes and gravy and the roast beef we had.
And they always had good green beans and corn and carrots.
I've always just sort of liked the family style.
It would almost remind you of eating at the Black Eyed Pea.
Describe a typical class day, a Monday through Saturday noon.
Begin where, what happened, what did you all do in the afternoons?
Well, of course, first thing after chow, we had to have our rooms ready for inspection.
So you made up your bed, did all that stuff, grabbed your books.
Those days you didn't know what a backpack was.
And if any Aggie got caught carrying a briefcase, he was a sissy.
You didn't carry a briefcase.
You just had all those books under your arm.
And we'd head out to class and we couldn't walk on the grass so we had to stay in the street on the sidewalk.
And morning classes, anywhere from 8 o'clock on, we had morning classes.
Saturdays we had 7 o'clock classes.
and that seems strange to kids today that we had Saturday classes but we did.
I liked to get my classes as many of them as I could in the morning and sometimes you had your labs in the afternoon but in that day and time we even had a meal formation as I recall at noon and
Anyway, then after lunch, you'd come back.
If you had a class, you'd go to that.
Then you came back and you got to be in your fatigues or whatever.
Usually we had some intramural program going.
We were practicing for, getting ready for.
In the football season, we had what was called the outfit sign that had to be put out in front of your dorm.
And it was some caricature about whoever we were playing.
If it was an owl, rice owl, well, we'd show an owl being plucked or tarred and feathered or whatever, and we were judged on those.
And so we'd go down into the lounge area of our dorm, and I suppose these were on a wooden frame that was 15 by 10 at least, a piece of almost like cheesecloth, heavy cloth nailed to it.
We'd go down, put those things together, and then we'd start our drawing.
And we had to have it up as early for the next week as we could.
Of course, then there were the outfits that burned them and they threw ink bombs at them and all kinds of stuff.
So it was kind of fun to do that.
But the afternoons were filled with a lot of activities.
And of course, you tried to get some studying in, but freshmen didn't sleep.
You didn't sleep in your room.
You learn quickly that there were places in Cushing Library where you could hide and sleep.
And one of my favorite places to sleep was in the church library over at Northgate where I went to the A&M Church of Christ.
And we could go over there and sleep in that library.
Nobody would even know it.
And so, you know, it was a game in a sense that you played with the sophomores to stay out of their path.
There wasn't any such thing as just sitting around and, you know, watching a video or going to a movie or anything like that.
You pretty well had every minute scheduled if you were at the dorm.
Would it even have been approved if you'd had an unlimited spending account to go to Northgate to have a coke and spend an hour doing that?
Well, I think to some degree you got away with a little of that.
You'd go check the mail.
And you'd wind up, you know, getting something to drink at the MSC, have a cup of coffee, whatever.
But no, you didn't ask for permission to do that.
You just did it.
Let's see.
Some good bull that you remember that from jokes, pranks, that you remember from that freshman year.
Well, we had...
water fights pretty regularly.
And I remember one morning, it must have been my freshman year, and I was living on the fourth floor, or as we called it, the fourth stoop.
And, no, take it back, I was on the ground floor my freshman year.
ground floor, and I was in room 112.
I don't know why I remember that, but I do.
And all of a sudden, I heard commotion in the hallway, whistles blowing.
I slept on the top bunk.
Don was sleeping on the second.
And I jumped down out into about four inches of water in my room.
And I thought, what on earth has happened?
The jocks had come through the steam tunnels, come up, they'd taken, first of all in the steam tunnel they turned the water off, and then they took the head, the valves off all the heads in the restrooms, and then went down and turned the water back on.
And they built a little dike, I'll never forget, across the stairway with towels.
so that it would hold water.
And when we woke up, the water was on the fourth floor is where they opened all the valves.
And it all had to come four floors down.
And I remember we mopped and baled water all night long.
It was really an event.
And that was a fish duty, a freshman duty.
Oh, yes.
Well, of course, the sophomores had to help too in that instance because there was everything in your room floating around that was on the floor.
I think just thinking of wet things though, one of the, one of the strangest occurrences my freshman year was where I grew up, it was pretty dry and dusty.
I have big sandstorms.
Come to College Station.
And for a period from September to January, there was a period in there.
I don't know the exact time.
But for 30 days, we did not see the sun.
It rained on and off practically all the time.
My shoes, my belts were mildewing in the closet.
And speaking of closet, that was another thing in the military situation.
You know, you had to have everything buttoned, hanging properly.
And if you didn't, there was a pile of buttons on your dresser when you came back.
Sophomores would come in and cut them off.
They weren't buttoned.
But it was a teaching experience of discipline.
Did you ever participate in any good bull, in any pranks?
Oh, yes.
I was involved.
I'll never forget the most embarrassing one of all was about the end of our freshman year.
And we were in a water fight and it was final exam week.
And of course, everybody's supposed to be in the dorm studying, but we're having water fight and the water fight is just with ourselves.
We're not even fighting the army jocks over there or anything.
Well, they had, you know, the gang restrooms with showers and all of the facilities there.
And so we would go in and fill up a trash can with water.
And a lot of times carry it outside then and throw it on somebody.
Well, it got to where if you weren't careful after a while, you're throwing water in the hall.
You're throwing water on anybody you can, any place you can.
And so just about the time the restroom door was opening, I unloaded my trash can on our attack officer, Colonel Major Goff.
And he was not happy.
And so all of us had to go down to his office and he said, it was a final exam, end of the freshman year, and he said, gentlemen, the first thing you do when you come back next fall is report to me.
Well, we had all summer then to stew about what he was going to do to us.
He didn't do a thing, except torture us all summer.
But I think probably some of the most memorable
pranks that we pulled was when you get a sophomore that you just didn't care for.
Just before a holiday one time we took, I'm not going to call names because it doesn't help, but we had a few sophomores that were just very, very hard to deal with.
So we took their beds apart after they left for Thanksgiving or whenever it was.
And we put shrimp up in the bed post and then put them back together.
And when they came back, you can imagine the aroma in their rooms.
It was not very pleasant.
How long did it take them to discover the source of the shrimp, of the smell?
Well, it took quite a while.
It took quite a while.
And we got to help wash the beds and do all kinds of good stuff.
And then there was the other
babo bomb that was always interesting.
You take a can of babo, put a firecracker in it, cherry bomb they're called, set it in somebody's room and let it go off and everything is powdered, just covered.
And the only thing worse than that would be when you took a box of scabs that was dry cereal in the vernacular of the core lingo
wet it down real good and put a cherry bomb in it and then blow it off in a guy's room and let it sit over a weekend.
And to get those cornflakes or whatever off of the ceiling and off of everything, almost had to have a chisel.
And that always gave you a lot of satisfaction to see the sophomores try to figure out who did it.
As that year began to end, how did you feel about being an Aggie?
Well, I think by the time we got into that last semester, we had what was called Fish Day.
I need information about Fish Day.
And Fish Day was the day when the fish got to act like sophomores.
And we got to tell the sophomores what to do.
And it was sort of the coming out party almost for the fish when you're about to turn to sophomores.
And we had a lot of fun.
And we began, I think, to realize to some degree that being a sophomore wasn't quite as much fun as we thought it was going to be.
Because they expect you to be more dignified and you couldn't say,
Sir, not being informed of the highest degree of accuracy.
I'm, you know, I'm a very dumb fish and cannot remember.
I mean, you have that little slogan that you're always quoting.
And, but as a sophomore, you were supposed to know better.
And so we realized pretty fast that being a sophomore wasn't a lot of fun.
One other prank that I'll always remember, it was a lot of fun.
And yet it was fun.
because we created it.
But our juniors came to us just before the sophomore ball that was coming up.
And to have a big sophomore party and affair like this, the dance and everything, you had to have class A uniforms, which meant your blouses.
And they said, you mean y'all are not going to steal the sophomore's blouses?
And we didn't know you were supposed to, but they told us.
So we slipped around and stole all of the sophomore blouses.
Of course, the juniors were quick to take them off on some kind of an excursion so we could steal them.
And one of the guys in my outfit, Sam Talo, and two or three others took them to San Antonio and put them in the cleaners.
And so for a week,
before the sophomore ball they were trying to get us to tell them where their blouses were and of course you had the juniors grinning and laughing because we did this and you had the sophomores mad because they couldn't go to the event without them so I remember we started off probably it was on a Sunday night and they
let us go to bed, and then about 11 o'clock they blow the whistle and said, all you freshmen fall out.
We want you in your helmet liners, raincoats, and tennis shoes.
They handed every one of us a spoon.
They took a trash can at one end and filled it with water.
Took a trash can at the other end, and we had to walk with the spoons full of water all the way down to the other end and dump it in.
We did that all night.
Well, the next night, they started doing this again.
And we were having so much fun, and we were so sleepy that we would just kick the full bucket of water over and let it spill.
And finally, the juniors just chewed out the sophomores and said, leave those freshmen alone.
Well, then we had to start going to class wearing our raincoats, helmet liners, and carrying a broom.
And then at noon, we added a mop.
And then the next morning, we added a footlocker.
And we had to carry all of this stuff with us to class.
And everybody would say, well, squadron fours, sophomores are after the freshmen.
We scrubbed the dorm with toothbrushes.
I mean, we did everything imaginable that was demeaning to try to get us to tell them where their blouses were.
And I think Saturday morning, finally, before the Saturday night event, the juniors came to us and said, guys, y'all have pulled it off.
Get those blouses.
And so we had somebody from San Antonio bring them, and they got them back.
But that was a week-long experience of agony, but we created it, and so we were happy about it.
Did you feel, how did you feel about coming back as a sophomore?
Couldn't wait to get back.
We actually came early.
Even though they didn't have, you know, Fish Orientation Week then, but we wanted to get back early.
What was it like to be a sophomore?
Well, there was a sense of pride about being a sophomore that we had made it through that fish year.
There was a period of sadness also because we lost over half our freshmen.
And by the time we graduated, there was only about 25% of us that graduated.
So it was a devastating loss to us to lose those good buddies.
Now you said lost about half of them first year.
Was it the end of the first semester or the second semester?
Well, you lost a lot of them the first two or three weeks, more of them at the end of the semester, more of them at the second semester.
What would be your guesstimate as to how many of them flunked out compared to dropouts?
I would say at least a third of them flunked out, at least.
And it was somehow they did not have that ability to do all the extracurricular stuff and still make their grades.
Now, I think we scooted, I'm looking back at Fish Day.
Fish Day was when?
It was in the second semester, a few weeks before final review.
And this was a turnaround where y'all?
It was a turnaround where we got to be sophomores for a day.
And it, I can't recall, I think it was campus-wide, but I'm not certain.
It could have been different outfits did it at different times, but I think it was pretty much campus-wide.
Did the sophomores kind of say to you, just wait until tomorrow finish?
Oh, yes.
They loved that.
Don't be too hard on me.
Remember, I got the rest of the semester to get back at you.
Were there some key teachers, instructors, advisors you had that first year?